The data included in TidyData is obtained from the link: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

Authors of the data set:
Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012
This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.

Description of complete data set obtained in link: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. 

Using raw data set described above, the TidyData set includes the average by activity and subject for Mean and Standard Deviation variables.

Variables included (in columns)

The features selected for the source database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals Acc-XYZ and Gyro-XYZ.Time domain signals captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.

raw.bodyacc.mean.x
raw.bodyacc.mean.y
raw.bodyacc.mean.z
raw.bodygyro.mean.x
raw.bodygyro.mean.y
raw.bodygyro.mean.z
raw.bodyacc.std.x
raw.bodyacc.std.y
raw.bodyacc.std.z
raw.bodygyro.std.x
raw.bodygyro.std.y
raw.bodygyro.std.z
raw.gravityacc.mean.x
raw.gravityacc.mean.y
raw.gravityacc.mean.z
raw.gravityacc.std.x
raw.gravityacc.std.y
raw.gravityacc.std.z

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals. 

raw.bodyaccjerk.mean.x
raw.bodyaccjerk.mean.y
raw.bodyaccjerk.mean.z
raw.bodygyrojerk.mean.x
raw.bodygyrojerk.mean.y
raw.bodygyrojerk.mean.z
raw.bodyaccjerk.std.x
raw.bodyaccjerk.std.y
raw.bodyaccjerk.std.z
raw.bodygyrojerk.std.x
raw.bodygyrojerk.std.y
raw.bodygyrojerk.std.z

Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm.

raw.bodyaccmag.mean
raw.bodyaccjerkmag.mean
raw.bodygyromag.mean
raw.bodygyrojerkmag.mean
raw.bodyaccmag.std
raw.bodyaccjerkmag.std
raw.bodygyromag.std
raw.bodygyrojerkmag.std
raw.gravityaccmag.mean
raw.gravityaccmag.std
 
Finally a Fast Fourier Transform was applied to some of these signals.

fourier.bodyacc.mean.x
fourier.bodyacc.mean.y
fourier.bodyacc.mean.z
fourier.bodygyro.mean.x
fourier.bodygyro.mean.y
fourier.bodygyro.mean.z
fourier.bodyacc.std.x
fourier.bodyacc.std.y
fourier.bodyacc.std.z
fourier.bodygyro.std.x
fourier.bodygyro.std.y
fourier.bodygyro.std.z
fourier.bodyaccjerk.mean.x
fourier.bodyaccjerk.mean.y
fourier.bodyaccjerk.mean.z
fourier.bodyaccjerk.std.x
fourier.bodyaccjerk.std.y
fourier.bodyaccjerk.std.z
fourier.bodyaccmag.mean
fourier.bodybodyaccjerkmag.mean
fourier.bodybodygyromag.mean
fourier.bodybodygyrojerkmag.mean
fourier.bodyaccmag.std
fourier.bodybodyaccjerkmag.std
fourier.bodybodygyromag.std
fourier.bodybodygyrojerkmag.std


